#summary How project sappho uses S3.
#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured

= Getting your photos into S3 =

You must resize and upload your photos manually, at present. Tools such as [http://www.irfanview.com/ IrfanView] and [https://jets3t.dev.java.net/ Jets3t] make batch conversions and uploads very quick and easy for Windows users.

You'll need to choose a bucket and a path. If you'd like to store your photos in the location `http://BIG-BUCKET.s3.amazonaws.com/things/my_pictures/`, you must create a bucket named `BIG-BUCKET`. Your path would then be `things/my_pictures`.

_sappho_ uses a very specific directory structure. Within your chosen path, you'll have three folders: `a`, `b`, and `c`.
  * `a` contains full resolution images.
  * `b` contains images with a long side of 640px.
  * `c` contains images with a long side of 120px.

If you're uploading one image named `000001.jpg`, you'll need it in three sizes, all with the same filename, in each of the folders `a`, `b`, and `c`.

_sappho_ requires a numerical filename with the extension `.jpg`. These are examples of valid image filenames:
  * `0.jpg`
  * `000001.jpg`
  * `98765432109876543210.jpg`
These are examples of _invalid_ image filenames:
  * `000001.JPG`
  * `001jlr.jpg`
  * `000001.jpeg`
  * `000001.png`

Once you get the three sizes uploaded for a given file name, the photo should appear when you visit `/manage/import.php`.

= Automated scripts =

Perhaps you'd like to code some shell scripts that automatically resize and upload your photos! That would be great!

When we have more time to code, such scripts may become a part of this project's code base. (See [http://code.google.com/p/sappho/issues/detail?id=24 Issue 24].)